Palunteer.
>> Palunteer.
>> Palunteer. Most people have no idea what
this company actually does, but behind
the scenes, Palunteer has a plan, and
it's quite smart. A plan to become
completely indispensable to businesses
and indeed nations around the world,
embedding themselves so deeply in
government departments that replacing
the company becomes basically
impossible. And investors are starting
to wake up to this sneaky plan. In fact,
in the last 12 months, Palanteer's stock
has quintupled. But the story goes much
deeper than you think. So, in this
video, we're going to look into this
data analysis company, what they are,
who they are, and why they're running
deep roots into businesses and
governments around the world. So, first
things first, what on earth is this
company? Palunteer is a company that has
built software designed to help large
institutions, especially governments,
make better decisions from their large
data sets. For example, during the CO 19
pandemic, Palante used it software to
help the UK's National Health Service
track hospital capacity, PPE supplies,
and vaccine distribution all in real
time. The company was originally founded
in 2003 to help US intelligence agencies
fight terrorism. And since then it's
evolved into a very powerful data
infrastructure company that serves the
military, government agencies,
healthcare, energy, finance, and more in
both the public and private sectors.
Palunteer is like the operating system
for real world decision-making. Their
software platforms don't just show you
charts. They integrate massive messy
data. They clean it and they connect it
to real world operations so that the
people at the top can make better, more
informed decisions. Now, to do this,
they've built four software platforms.
The first is Gotham. Yeah, with a name
like that, you can see why this company
is spoken about as being quite dark and
mysterious. And the Gotham platform is
designed for governments and defense.
It's used by the military, intelligence
agencies, and law enforcement to help
detect threats, map patterns, and plan
missions. For example, one well
doumented instance of the US military
using Gotham is during operations in
Afghanistan where it was deployed to
help identify and disrupt roadside bomb
networks. Intelligence analysts use
Gotham to combine data from field
reports, drone footage, signals
intelligence, and info from local
informants, and the software helped map
relationships between people, locations,
and events, which helped uncover hidden
networks of insurgents responsible for
IED attacks. In this instance, the
platform proved so effective that many
field commanders requested Palanteer
over militaryissued alternatives citing
its speed, usability, and impact in
saving lives. So that's Gotham or the
military side. Then secondly, we have
foundry which is more for commercial
businesses. They describe it as the
central nervous system of a business
integrating lots of internal data. We're
talking supply chains, sales figures,
production stats into one platform to
enable employees across the business to
run models or test ideas and optimize
operations. Airbus back in 2015 is a
good example of Foundar's capabilities.
Airbus was trying to streamline its
global production process which involved
thousands of suppliers and millions of
individual parts. And by integrating
data from its supply chain, its
factories and its engineering teams then
into foundry, Airbus was then able to
create a unified platform where all
employees, whether it be factory floor
workers or executives, could work on
stuff in real time. And the result,
Airbus accelerated A350 deliveries by
33% enabling them to dramatically scale
production without sacrificing quality
or timelines. In fact, the platform
works so well the Airbus partnered with
Palanteer to start offering this service
to the rest of the airline industry. And
from 50 users back in 2015, Skywise, as
it's now known, has over 100 airlines
and 18,000 people using it today.
Independent third party analysis
estimates that the Skywise platform
alone creates a revenue opportunity
exceeding 850 million peranom and
enables cost savings of greater than 1.7
billion peranom. So this largecale data
analysis system not only helps
governments foundry proved it can help
businesses too. Then from there their
third platform is Apollo which is
Palanteer's behindthe-scenes engine that
ensures their software like Gotham and
Foundry and AIP which we'll talk about
runs smoothly, securely and continuously
in any environment. It's kind of like
the company's mission control. It
automatically delivers software updates,
security patches, and configuration
changes to customers, whether they're
using Palunteer in the cloud, on private
servers, or even in disconnected or
classified environments like submarines
and military bases. And then finally,
their newest platform, as I just
mentioned, is AIP, launched in 2023, and
it's all about bringing the power of AI
and large language models into real
world decision-making. Obviously, now
most companies want to use AI, but the
problem is they still don't know how to
safely connect powerful models like GPT4
to their sensitive internal data. So,
AIP lets governments and businesses
combine their private data with the best
AI models all in a secure, controlled,
and auditable way. For example, a
defense agency could use AIP to generate
battlefield recommendations based on
live data. Or a manufacturing company
could use it to optimize production in
real time. But AIP also ensures there's
easy human oversight and strict privacy
controls in place. So overall, that's
how Palunteer has built their company.
But it's when you start breaking down
their financials that things get really
interesting. The company listed back in
2020 through a direct listing on the New
York Stock Exchange. A direct listing is
quite rare and quite unlike a normal IPO
because in these instances, you don't
sell new shares to the public. the stock
simply starts trading on an exchange,
which gives existing shareholders an
easier way to sell their shares, and it
gives the public a chance to buy those
shares. It was kind of Palanteer's way
of saying, you know, we don't need Wall
Street's help. And in fact, we don't
really want to dilute what we've got
going on here, but that seemed odd
considering that in 2020, the company
may have generated 1.1 billion in
revenue, but on the bottom line, they
lost over 1.1 billion. They were burning
cash. At this point in time, Palanteer
had 139 customers with 44% of their
revenue coming in from business clients
and 56% of their revenue coming in from,
you guessed it, government contracts.
This is where Palanteer's strategy
really comes into play. Their thesis is
if you can find a way to almost embed
yourself into the very operations of a
business or a government department,
then you can over time make yourself
completely indispensable. Think about
the Airbus example. They provided a
software solution that organized,
simplified, and improved the operations
of the entire company. Now, if you have
a product that can do that, if you can
get companies to run off of your
operating system, that's a very powerful
position to be in. The management of
Palanteer figured this out. And after
listing, instead of trying to just make
the most money they possibly could
straight off the bat, they instead
focused on trying to wiggle their way
into as many businesses or government
departments as they could. Over the next
four years, Palanteer quintupled their
customers. They now serve 711 businesses
and government agencies around the world
with some of their most notable
government clients including the US
Department of Defense, the CIA, US
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the
UK National Health Service, the FBI, NSA
and DHS, and then on the business front,
Airbus, BP, Merc, Microsoft, and even
the Ferrari Formula 1 team. Palanteer
went full customer acquisition mode.
Plant the seed in as many complex
operations as you can and let your
product become increasingly
indispensable as the years tick on. In
business, this is called a switching
mode. It's a type of competitive
advantage where you provide a product or
service that ends up being relied upon
by other businesses or government. So
much so that switching away from you is
just too hard. It'll be costly to
retrain staff. It'll result in a
reduction in productivity. It's just not
worth it. That's what Palanteer are
going for and it's starting to work.
While their total customers continues to
rise, have a look at this metric they've
reported for the last 3 years. Average
years of revenue from contracts signed.
In 2022, they had an average of 2.8
years of revenue locked in from their
contracts. Then in 2023, that rose to
3.4 years of revenue. And now the new
contracts Palanteer signed in 2024 give
the company an average of 3.6 years of
revenue. So, as they lock themselves
into the very fabric of their customers
workflows, they can start to lock in
longer and longer contracts, building
longerterm relationships with their
clients. And one of the best ways to
test whether you've got a true switching
mode is to see whether raising prices
negatively impacts your customer
acquisition. But now, have a look at
this. Over the past 5 years, Palanteer's
customers have grown very consistently.
But check out the average revenue they
bring in from their top 20 clients. In
2020, 33.2 million. But in 2024, that
number was almost double. An average of
64.6 million. So, not only are they
adding more and more and more customers,
but their big customers are also earning
them more yearbyear. And this emerging
switching mode has really started to
turn around their finances. In 2019,
they lost 580 million. In 2020, the year
of their listing, losses amounted to a
whopping 1.17 billion. But in the last
two years, things have really changed.
In 2024, they earned 462 million. And in
their most recent quarterly report,
profit came in at $214 million, which
annualized is $856 million. The company
is starting to print cash. And the
reaction from shareholders has been
pretty big. So over the past year,
Pilenteer has done 49%.
This stock has taken the mantle as the
number one identifiable momentum stock
in the market.
>> For guidance, the AI and data analytics
company raising forecasts, all metrics,
above street estimates.
>> Paler is probably the most highly valued
enterprise software data analytics
company.
>> I believe this is going to a trillion
dollar market cap in the next 2 to 3
years.
>> Some people say this is the GameStop of
our era. Yes, on the back of what is,
you know, genuinely impressive business
growth, the stock has absolutely surged.
When the company listed in 2020, they
began trading around $10 per share. Now,
around 5 years later, the company's
stock trades at a whopping $154,
a 15x. But what's remarkable is that
most of that performance has been just
in the last 12 months. In July 2024, the
stock traded around 30 bucks, giving
investors a 12-month return of over
400%.
Now, that is stunning performance and
it's catapulted their CEO, Alex Karp,
into becoming a cult-like figure. But
it's also opened up a lot of questions
about their current valuation. At the
time of recording, Palanteer shares
currently have a PE ratio of
approximately, drum roll please, 670.
Yes, based on current levels, if you
bought the stock, you would be waiting
for 670 years before you got your money
back. And this has led to a lot of
debate in the investing community as to
whether this business should even be
considered. But here's the thing. The
believers aren't thinking about where
the business and its cash flows stand
today. They're thinking about where the
business could be in 5 or 10 years. They
think, well, this company clearly has a
desirable product. They offer an
invaluable service to their customers.
And if they can continue adding more
customers, thus widening that switching
mode, then this thing, you know, could
be a rocket ship. This is very much the
story of Nvidia a few years ago when the
company was growing rapidly in the early
2020s. It kind of didn't matter that you
bought in at a super high P ratio
because the business grew profit so much
in the subsequent years. The ultra high
valuation of 2020 actually looks
extremely cheap today. Now, I'm not
saying that's necessarily going to
happen to Palanteer, but that's the way
Palanteer investors are thinking today.
And the question that each investor
needs to ask themselves is whether they
see that happening in the future. After
all, as the business stands today, it's
on an 856 million annualized profit run
rate on track to deliver 1.2 billion in
free cash flow this year. But at a $363
billion market cap, there still be a
price to free cash flow of over $300.
So, can they continue their explosive
growth phase over the next few years to
justify the current price? Well, that's
the million-doll question. But also
beyond valuation, another cause for
concern around Palanteer is also their
aggressive stock-based compensation. As
the name suggests, this is where
management gets paid in stock as opposed
to cash. And this isn't inherently a bad
thing, but it does mean that investors
get diluted over time. And I'm not going
to lie, when it comes to stockbased
comp, Palanteer has a reputation for
being particularly egregious. A simple
way to look at stockbased compensation
is simply as a percentage of the
company's revenue. For example, Apple's
stock-based compensation is roughly 2 to
3% of their revenue. Now admittedly,
Apple is a very different business to
Palanteer, but to give you an example of
Palanteer's stockbased compensation, in
2020, stockbased comp was over 1.2
billion. And incredibly, that was higher
than their revenue at the time. So over
100% of revenue to Stockbased Comp. Now,
as the years have ticked on, stockbased
compensation expense has ticked down to
692 million in 2024, representing 24% of
revenue. But honestly, that's still
pretty darn high. And the result is
investors continue to get diluted quite
significantly. So overall, there are
definitely some risk factors to consider
from an investing point of view that
need to be factored in when you look at
Palanteer. Overall, that is the lowdown
on the company and it's the lowdown on
why you're seeing it pop up so much in
the news at the current time. But
overall, if you enjoyed this video,
please leave a like. And one more thing,
if you're considering coming along to
that live 3-day investing workshop with
myself and Phil Town in Atlanta this
September, please do sign up now. Spots
are filling up fast, so get in while
they're still on offer. And remember to
confirm your enrollment with the Rule
One team if you have signed up already.
So, you'll get information in follow-up
emails, but you need to send them your
flight or hotel confirmation, and that
will lock you in for the event because
the ticket's free. Anyone can sign up
for a ticket, but we need to know how
many people are coming. So, make sure
you confirm with the rule one team.
Overall, apart from that, thank you guys
very much for watching and I'll see you
all in the next video.
[Music]